# Linux Streams and Redirection

Each Linux process is attached to three standard streams. Here's a rough diagram:

Standard input(stdin) -> Process -> Standard Error (stderr)
						-> Standard Output (stdout)

The standard input stream is used to read input. For example, in a C program, when we use scanf, we read the characters on the input stream. By default stdin is connected to the keyboard. However, it is possible to redirect the content from a file into the stdin stream. To do so, use the < operator:

```bash
myprogram < /usr/share/dict/words
```

This means the scanf function would read the information in the text file provided.

The stdout stream is used to send the output generated by the process. For example, printf sends output to stdout. The stderr stream, in contrast, is used to output error messages. We can use the fprintf function to generate output on stderr. The reason to have two streams is to not clutter the output stream with error and logging information.

By default, both stdout and stderr are connected to the stream's display. However, like for stdin, we can redirect the content into files using > for stdout and 2> for stderr. If we want to append to the output file rather than overwrite, we can use >>.  For example:

```bash
echo "Good morning" > out.txt
echo "Good afternoon" > out.txt
echo "Good evening" >> out.txt
cat out.txt
```

will output "Good afternoon\nGood evening". We can combine input and output redirection for any program , for example like this:

```bash
myprogram < in.txt > out.txt 2> errorlog.txt
```

Another feature we might want to use is to redirect stdout and stderr to the same file. We can use &> for that. If we want to redirect the output from stdout to stderr, we can do >&2. To redirect from stderr to stdout, we can use 2>&1.
